# stat240_Crop-Quality-Prediction

## Introduction
Most agricultural crops in Korea are traded in the public wholesale produce auctions governed by local governments. When farmers supply their produce to the wholesale market, they report the quality based on their own evaluation. However, this voluntary quality grading system in Korea thus raises doubts about its objectivity because the standards are subjective and arbitrary, which may lead to the overvaluation or undervaluation of the crops. Therefore, establishing an objective quality grading system would be important for transforming the agricultural supply chain and market to be fairer, more competitive, and more resilient. In order to provide data-driven insights into how to identify crop quality in a reliable manner, this project examines what factors can potentially represent the quality. I analyze time series data on agricultural crops that contains information on wholesale and retail market transactions, weather, and trades (import and export). In the absence of data on quality grades, price is used as a proxy for quality because the auction price is determined by the experts at the produce auctions who inspect the crops based on the freshness, color, shape, and ripeness, not just the arbitrary grades self-reported by the producers. I applied classification techniques--decision trees, random forests, and support vector machine--to explore what features are capable of classifying the price range. Under the assumption that some information in the data, such as meteorological variables, has an underlying relationship with crop quality, I also conduct factor analysis to discover any latent factors in the hopes that they may be reflective of the quality.